# Layered Data Security (WP3)

WP3 will create a holistic concept about addressing security and privacy aspects of the project. This WP will also ensure that the concept is applicable to and followed by other iReceptor Plus components. It will consider existing approaches and will consider both general requirements of the health domain and the specific requirements around AIRR-seq data. Secure data sharing will be enabled by implementing layered security between the individual components across the iReceptor Platform, enabling data stewards to control access to their confidential data while at the same time using the iReceptor Platform to enable the secure sharing of those data where permissible through formal agreements such as Ethics Board approvals and Material Transfer Agreements. A layered security model will provide multiple levels of authentication and authorization. These security layers will provide mechanisms for data stewards to implement levels of control at different levels of granularity, restricting access at multiple levels (through authentication) as well as restricting access to specific types of data (through role-based authorization) and tracking data access and use (e.g. using logging or technologies like blockchain). In addition to each layer providing control over access to data at different levels of granularity, a layered security model also helps protect data, requiring an attacker to compromise each layer of the security platform in order to access data. Security layers for a data repository include control over access at the client level (the tool or system trying to access data), the user level (the user for which the client is requesting access), and the data level (control over, and tracking of which data a user has access to within the repository).
